Reach me baby. (V.0.2)

I have been thinking about why society is so painfuly lame. Why, in the upper middle class crust of Mexico City we are all in the know of everyone. 
Everybody seems so up in everyother's business. Like the concept frenemy should not be something I have so present. Like fucking vice should not
be the binding glue of us all. Like the constant dick measuring contest people, even me or specially me, seem to engage with during these trying times
seems to be getting steeper and steeper. 

I used to be a lot more self conscious about it. I felt like there was some deeep gravity in all of this which I always wanted to abstract myself from. 
It's like in all the russian and french novels of the XIX century how society, specially and maybe only, high society is always protrayed as decadent, 
sad. With characters all being incredibly uninteresting, just making other's lives theirs. Tolstoy, Proust, Flaubert, Dostoievsky. You know what I mean. 

But there is something terribly unnatural from trying to extrecate oneselves from it. I guess I was always more Nietzche than Buddhist. I fail to
remain in my room, peacefully. And thus we are bound to try, again and again. To make ourselves understood, to make a scratch of our own in the
tree of live, to write our lines in the book of love, to try. 

It is a deficiency of my character, a hereditary one if I had to pass judgement on where it came from, me being so self conscious about society.
I used to care way less, but somewhere in the middle things went terrible wrong. There's this thing where those of us who cannot seem to be left alone, 
I mean, I struggle to count myself amongst them but it really does happen to me, that everywhere I go, call it a bar, a bookstore, a museum, it's like
the people I know will know of me. Not because we're close, not because I have posted it on social media, but because it seems that talking about me
is a thing people do. 

I am proud to say that, amongst all my interactions with people I, even through great efforts, do make a conscious effort of being of help and not too
judgemental of them. Nevertheless, I am truthful when asked for my opinion and heavily oppinionated in almost all matters, call it politics, call it art, 
call it what you want. Except for sports in which I am mostly deft, I have opinions, and it is my cross to bear to be unable to shut the fuck up
about them, although they constantly get me in conflict. 

It's not that I am a particularly controversial figure, well. Sigh, I mean I have been. In school I was the junkie and the left leaning guy, at work I
have always been the one who holds ideals the strongest, even in the face of total pragmatism. In my family I am constantly signaled out as different. 
This is not good. I have crashed several friend groups, I have always been proud to hold people together, hell, I have always considered myself "A pilar of my community" 
(what do you make of that lmao). 
Still, I am unable to find people that stand me, and it has something to do with looking at people in the eyes, and being humble about what I think, 
also having not too much to show for it apart from my dignity, and being relatively unatracted by money. 
This is a strange combination to hold in Mexico, a place where disparity has made money an essential for those who want to "stand out", call it the
artists or just freaks of us. A place where power bends evey will, and the ladder is clearly set from a long time before we even get to cast the die.

This is a place where people are bound together because that is what is supposed to happen in a place poor as this. Where failing or not mostly 
depends on what relationship you hold in other's eyes, and not on any ressemblance of meritocracy or skill. I think that, while it's good that we 
left behind such foolish notions the truth is that the active knowledge of this makes people more of a menace to society. It's like the usefulness of
the lie resided in making us all more docile, more mindful of ourselves, but now. Well.

You see my assessment is as follows: 

In this country we have a very submissive relation to authority because of the lack of opportinuty. We are ready to tolerate extreme abuse in order to
keep our lifestyle intact. This is reflected in our families, in our jobs, in our relation to government officials and our expectations of people
and friends. 
It is strange to state this because mexicans are known as warm and caring people and this is true but it coexists with our reluctancy to call out 
abuse and unhealthy relationships. 

It is not that deep and it is based on the way capital formation has developped in this country. The lack of social movility has made it impossible for
new generations to take part in society and self-actualization. People are very invested in others because it is common knowledge that those who can
help us are in the same rat race as us. Values tend to be discarded as easily as picked up because there is a tacit understanding of our social contract
where people who abuse societies vulnerabiliites are those who tend to "go further", or "get ahead". 

This is a heavily politicized country, but it is also one which lacks the tools to understand class struggle and one that has, historicaly, seen 
government as a force to be reckoned with; an institution which is there not to protect us or help us but to fuck us up. It is strange how, even
now that that a new party has been elected, this view holds just as strong. Even with a greater access to social programs, even with a government 
which champions freedom of speech and does not repress mass movements. 

The thing is, there are so many misconceptions relating to power here, the dominant ideology left behind by the PRI where "el que no tranza no avanza", 
"un político pobre es un pobre político" and the fucking "te falta barrio", expression which is invoqued every time one's rights are stepped on, 
makes community hard to surface. It is only in the face of great adversity that people are able to organize, but the tendency of social groups in this 
country and the tell they tell is as old as the 40s. A new policial group rises, the leaders are corrupted into selling out the group, they pay out
their close allies and the collective gets little benefits. 
I mean these are things that every capitalist country has seen and it has to do with the problems of erecting a vertical organization. 

But the problems with horizontal organization are even more emphasized here: canibalization of the movement, fractures which make holding a broad 
coallition untennable, and overall the inability to organize end up destroying even faster said movements. I'll say that feminism is the broadest
horizontal moevement in this country which has held on year after year, even when the government has claimed some of its members for itself. But apart from it, 
no structure is able to provide workers and members of society benefits due to its lack of organization. 

I am rambling out of order. 

							-o0OO0o-

Getting back to the point. It bothers me how much people are invested in others lives in ways which seem to challenge and despise other's views. 
I am guilty of it as well. I catch myself rat racing my peers to goals I am not even interested in fulfilling, chasing prestige and what not, because
that is the default setting we are in here. And, somehow, that has ended up being a stable equilibrium. 

Again with the crab barrell analogy, again with the fucking lack of idealism, all just pushing through to get out slice of cake, our little 
esquina rosada, as a friend of mine would say. 

You can't be in it and not of it, goes the saying. Well I try not to be of it. I try not to fall to the senseless competition, but it's this stupid
little game where if you ain't playing you are already losing in it. It has caused me to lose a lot of my political battles and to this day, those 
I've "won", have been pirric victories. Because cutting off an arm always hurts. Because leaving behind someone means leaving behing a group of 
people. And we may not be the best, but we are mexicans, and in this mess that we've made, we keep sticking to each other. 
I've made a mess in this place trying to hold my own. That's all I can account for. 

But hey, what better than going away to start over. Land of the free, home of the brave, they say. Another messed up place, but where
opportunity has a name and a price, and where the game has been spelled out for generations and made unfair for even more. A place where one can 
reinvent oneself. 

I wish I could write more orderly, more clearly, but in the age of AI I have come to appreciate this silly excercises of me, the black screen and no
autocorrect. Everything seems so urgent now a days. 

I lastly wish to say that there is no strength to be found in this rat race. As Atlanta S3 E1 calls out, spite is one hell of a motivator. In the absence 
of love, of need, of honesty and self respect it will take the fucking wheel and in a moment's glance it will drag you out of bed and make you GO. 
But there is nothing at the end of those roads. Nothing but lonelyness and a million deaths of the ego before the last one. It's like i just don't 
want it to tell my story. It's like I need to get away from it. From it all. 
